==========================================================================
AIPR 11 figure captions
==========================================================================
Last updated on 10/5/11; 10/6/11
==========================================================================

{
1.  30 representative thumbnails from a set of 30K+ photos shot around MIT
in July 2009.
}

2.  54 SIFT feature matches found between two photos shot around MIT.

3.  Synchronized web browser and graph viewer displays of 30K+ photos shot
around MIT.  (a) Nodes within the SIFT graph on the right are
hierarchically clustered and colored to reveal communities of
similar-looking photos.  (b) When we pick one node within a cluster in the
graph viewer, the corresponding image is displayed within the web browser.
The coloring of its edges to neighboring nodes correlates with their SIFT
feature overlap.  (c) Nodes automatically turn into thumbnails when the
graph viewer is zoomed-in far enough.  The web browser's carousel displays
thumbnails belonging to the same cluster as the currently selected node.

{
4.  3D structure recovery from multiple, overlapping 2D views.
}

5.  Incremental bundle adjustment results for 2317 MIT photos.  (a)
Recovered point cloud representing static scene 3D structure.  (b)
White-colored frusta depict relative position and pose for reconstructed
photos.

6.  Reconstructed photos georegistered with a ladar map of greater Boston.
Only a small fraction of all reconstructed frusta are displayed.

7.  (a) A representative reconstructed photo viewed within the 3D viewer
from the calculated position and orientation of its camera.  (b) Camera's
view of Boston ladar points when the photo in the image plane is faded
away.

8.  Synchronized Google Map and 3D viewer displays of reconstructed,
georegistered ground photos.  Camera geolocation and geoorientation
information are displayed within the web browser when a user clicks on its
colored dot.

9.  The Google Map interface provides a simple way for a user to select a
path through reconstructed ground photos.  After he presses the play button
in the web browser, the OpenSceneGraph viewer conducts a virtual 3D tour
through the photos which generally point in the forward direction along the
specified path.

10.  Radian sailplane, Canon powershot camera and Garmin GPS hardware for
an aerial glider system fielded during Lincoln Lab's 2010 Technology
Challenge.

11.  Two frames snapped by the Canon digital camera onboard the aerial
glider which flew up to 430 meters above ground.

12.  3D imagery reconstruction from aerial data gathered over a rural
environment.  (a) 74 of approximately 1500 camera frusta exhibited on a
longitude-latitude grid.  The continuous curve colored according to height
represents the glider's GPS track.  (b) Zoomed view of some camera frusta
and the dense terrain cloud.

13.  Dense point cloud representation for rural terrain colored according
to (a) digital camera's RGB values and (b) height above sea level.

14.  Two reconstructed aerial video frames backprojected onto a ground
Z-plane and displayed against a georegistered Google Map image.

15.  GEOINT propagation.  (a) Pixels selected in video frame #46 are
annotated with range and altitude metadata derived from counter part voxels
in the dense terrain point cloud.  (b) Locations of pixels in video frame
#92 corresponding to those in frame #46.



